# Deepfake-Detection-Image-similarity# Deepfake-Detection-Image-similarity

# Abstract
Deepfake and Deepswap image were generated by using open packages (ROOP). Different similarity parameters such as SSIM, MS-SSIM, MSE, Euclidian Distance are used along with a CNN based feature extraction method Conv2D. The study compares two different algorithms which are decision tree and random forest to find out the accuracy and the best fit model for our dataset. Evaluation metrics such as – accuracy, ROC curve and F1 score were used to find the best fitting. The two classification models Random Forest and Decision tree are deployed, both the models provided with a good result but the Random Forest turned out best fit for our data. It provided accuracy of 79.53% and 82.23% whereas Decision Tree model with 74.13%% and 74.78 % accuracy for the two different target deepfake generated by Roop and Face_Recognisation respectively.

# Deepfake creation
we use Roop repository to create deepfake video of two people :
Person 1: the person in the video
Person 2: the person whose image is swapped on the person in the video


# image dataset extraction
We use Multi-Task Convolutional Neural Network (MTCNN) and Face_Recognisation package to extract the face and the face features from all the images present in the image directory. The extracted image will be converted to RGB format internally by the package as all the image algorithms work best on RGB image type. The generated image is stored as a 3D array.

# Similarity Index extraction

We calculte all the similarity index of the images in the image directory of the face extraction to the face extracted from the frame of the deepfake video 
a.	Structural Similarity Index Measure (SSIM) 
b.	Multi-scale Structural Similarity Index Measure (MS-SSIM) 
c.	Mean Squared Error (MSE) 
d.	Euclidian Distance 

# Model Building 

Finally we will create Random Forest model and  Decision Tree Model and plot the graphs and accuracy.


# I have uploded the ppt of our work for better understanding
